Title: 6579: Full-length serotonin receptor (ion channel) 7009: Hungry, hungry macrophages5856: Dense tubular matrices in the peripheral endoplasmic reticulum (ER) 22636: Computer model of cell membrane1283: Vesicle traffic5753: Clathrin-mediated endocytosis6969: Snowflake yeast 11284: Ion channels5855: Dense tubular matrices in the peripheral endoplasmic reticulum (ER) 16569: Cryo-electron tomography of a Caulobacter bacterium
Description:A 3D reconstruction, created using cryo-electron microscopy, of an ion channel known as the full-length serotonin receptor in complex with the antinausea drug granisetron (orange). Ion channels are proteins in cell membranes that help regulate many processes.Macrophages (green) are the professional eaters of our immune system. They are constantly surveilling our tissues for targets—such as bacteria, dead cells, or even cancer—and clearing them before they can cause harm. In this image, researchers were testing how macrophages responded to different molecules that were attached to silica beads (magenta) coated with a lipid bilayer to mimic a cell membrane. Find more information on this image in the NIH Director’s Blog post "How to Feed a Macrophage."Three-dimensional reconstruction of a tubular matrix in a thin section of the peripheral endoplasmic reticulum between the plasma membranes of the cell.  The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a continuous membrane that extends like a net from the envelope of the nucleus outward to the cell membrane. The ER plays several roles within the cell, such as in protein and lipid synthesis and transport of materials between organelles.  Shown here are super-resolution microscopic images of the peripheral ER showing the structure of an ER tubular matrix between the plasma membranes of the cell. See image 5857 for a more detailed view of the area outlined in white in this image. For another view of the ER tubular matrix see image 5855A computer model of the cell membrane, where the plasma membrane is red, endoplasmic reticulum is yellow, and mitochondria are blue. This image relates to a July 27, 2009 article in Computing Life.This illustration shows vesicle traffic inside a cell. The double membrane that bounds the nucleus flows into the ribosome-studded rough endoplasmic reticulum (purple), where membrane-embedded proteins are manufactured. Proteins are processed and lipids are manufactured in the smooth endoplasmic reticulum (blue) and Golgi apparatus (green). Vesicles that fuse with the cell membrane release their contents outside the cell. The cell can also take in material from outside by having vesicles pinch off from the cell membrane.Endocytosis is the process by which cells are able to take up membrane and extracellular materials through the formation of a small intracellular bubble, called a vesicle. This process, called membrane budding, is generally by a coating of proteins. This protein coat helps both to deform the membrane and to concentrate specific proteins inside the newly forming vesicle. Clathrin is a coat protein that functions in receptor-mediated endocytosis events at the plasma membrane. This animation shows the process of clathrin-mediated endocytosis. An iron-transport protein called transferrin (blue) is bound to its receptor (purple) on the exterior cell membrane.  Inside the cell, a clathrin cage (shown in white/beige) assembles through interactions with membrane-bound adaptor proteins (green), causing the cell membrane to begin bending. The adaptor proteins also bind to receptors for transferrin, capturing them in the growing vesicle. Molecules of a protein called dynamin (purple) are then recruited to the neck of the vesicle and are involved in separating the membranes of the cell and the vesicle. Soon after the vesicle has budded off the membrane, the clathrin cage is disassembled. This disassembly is mediated by another protein called HSC70 (yellow), and its cofactor protein auxilin (orange).Multicellular yeast called snowflake yeast that researchers created through many generations of directed evolution from unicellular yeast. Stained cell membranes (green) and cell walls (red) reveal the connections between cells. Younger cells take up more cell membrane stain, while older cells take up more cell wall stain, leading to the color differences seen here. This image was captured using spinning disk confocal microscopy.  Related to images 6970 and 6971.The body uses a variety of ion channels to transport small molecules across cell membranes.Superresolution microscopy work on endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in the peripheral areas of the cell showing details of the structure and arrangement in a complex web of tubes.  The ER is a continuous membrane that extends like a net from the envelope of the nucleus outward to the cell membrane. The ER plays several roles within the cell, such as in protein and lipid synthesis and transport of materials between organelles. The ER has a flexible structure to allow it to accomplish these tasks by changing shape as conditions in the cell change. Shown here an image created by super-resolution microscopy of the ER in the peripheral areas of the cell showing details of the structure and the arrangements in a complex web of tubes. Related to images 5856 and 5857.3D image of Caulobacter bacterium with various components highlighted: cell membranes (red and blue), protein shell (green), protein factories known as ribosomes (yellow), and storage granules (orange).
Source: Sudha Chakrapani, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine.Meghan Morrissey, University of California, Santa Barbara.Jennifer Lippincott-Schwartz, Howard Hughes Medical Institute Janelia Research Campus, VirginiaBridget Wilson, University of New MexicoJudith StofferJanet Iwasa, University of UtahWilliam Ratcliff, Georgia Institute of Technology.Judith StofferJennifer Lippincott-Schwartz, Howard Hughes Medical Institute Janelia Research Campus, VirginiaPeter Dahlberg, Stanford University.