Title: 3664: Mitochondria from rat heart muscle cell_21287: Mitochondria2572: VDAC video 032494: VDAC-1 (3)3766: TFIID complex binds DNA to start gene transcription3661: Mitochondria from rat heart muscle cell3626: Bone cancer cell5762: Panorama view of golden mitochondria3765: Trypanosoma brucei, the cause of sleeping sickness6967: Multinucleated cancer cell
Description:These mitochondria (brown) are from the heart muscle cell of a rat. Mitochondria have an inner membrane that folds in many places (and that appears here as striations). This folding vastly increases the surface area for energy production. Nearly all our cells have mitochondria. Related to image 3661.Bean-shaped mitochondria are cells' power plants. These organelles have their own DNA and replicate independently. The highly folded inner membranes are the site of energy generation.This video shows the structure of the pore-forming protein VDAC-1 from humans. This molecule mediates the flow of products needed for metabolism--in particular the export of ATP--across the outer membrane of mitochondria, the power plants for eukaryotic cells. VDAC-1 is involved in metabolism and the self-destruction of cells--two biological processes central to health.  Related to videos 2570 and 2571.The structure of the pore-forming protein VDAC-1 from humans. This molecule mediates the flow of products needed for metabolism--in particular the export of ATP--across the outer membrane of mitochondria, the power plants for eukaryotic cells. VDAC-1 is involved in metabolism and the self-destruction of cells--two biological processes central to health. Related to images 2491, 2495, and 2488.Gene transcription is a process by which the genetic information encoded in DNA is transcribed into RNA. It's essential for all life and requires the activity of proteins, called transcription factors, that detect where in a DNA strand transcription should start. In eukaryotes (i.e., those that have a nucleus and mitochondria), a protein complex comprising 14 different proteins is responsible for sniffing out transcription start sites and starting the process. This complex, called TFIID, represents the core machinery to which an enzyme, named RNA polymerase, can bind to and read the DNA and transcribe it to RNA. Scientists have used cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) to visualize the TFIID-RNA polymerase-DNA complex in unprecedented detail. In this illustration, TFIID (blue) contacts the DNA and recruits the RNA polymerase (gray) for gene transcription. The start of the transcribed gene is shown with a flash of light. To learn more about the research that has shed new light on gene transcription, see this news release from Berkeley Lab. Related to  video 5730.These mitochondria (red) are from the heart muscle cell of a rat. Mitochondria have an inner membrane that folds in many places (and that appears here as striations). This folding vastly increases the surface area for energy production. Nearly all our cells have mitochondria. Related to image 3664.This image shows an osteosarcoma cell with DNA in blue, energy factories (mitochondria) in yellow, and actin filaments—part of the cellular skeleton—in purple. One of the few cancers that originate in the bones, osteosarcoma is rare, with about a thousand new cases diagnosed each year in the United States.  This image was part of the Life: Magnified exhibit that ran from June 3, 2014, to January 21, 2015, at Dulles International Airport.Mitochondria are the powerhouses of the cells, generating the energy the cells need to do their tasks and to stay alive. Researchers have studied mitochondria for some time because when these cell organelles don't work as well as they should, several diseases develop. In this photograph of cow cells taken with a microscope, the mitochondria were stained in bright yellow to visualize them in the cell. The large blue dots are the cell nuclei and the gray web is the cytoskeleton of the cells.Trypanosoma brucei is a single-cell parasite that causes sleeping sickness in humans. Scientists have been studying trypanosomes for some time because of their negative effects on human and also animal health, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. Moreover, because these organisms evolved on a separate path from those of animals and plants more than a billion years ago, researchers study trypanosomes to find out what traits they may harbor that are common to or different from those of other eukaryotes (i.e., those organisms having a nucleus and mitochondria). This image shows the T. brucei cell membrane in red, the DNA in the nucleus and kinetoplast (a structure unique to protozoans, including trypanosomes, which contains mitochondrial DNA) in blue and nuclear pore complexes (which allow molecules to pass into or out of the nucleus) in green. Scientists have found that the trypanosome nuclear pore complex has a unique mechanism by which it attaches to the nuclear envelope. In addition, the trypanosome nuclear pore complex differs from those of other eukaryotes because its components have a near-complete symmetry, and it lacks almost all of the proteins that in other eukaryotes studied so far are required to assemble the pore.A cancer cell with three nuclei, shown in turquoise. The abnormal number of nuclei indicates that the cell failed to go through cell division, probably more than once. Mitochondria are shown in yellow, and a protein of the cell’s cytoskeleton appears in red. This video was captured using a confocal microscope.
Source: National Center for Microscopy and Imaging ResearchJudith StofferGerhard Wagner, Harvard Medical SchoolGerhard Wagner, Harvard Medical SchoolEva Nogales, Berkeley LabNational Center for Microscopy and Imaging ResearchDylan Burnette and Jennifer Lippincott-Schwartz, NICHDTorsten Wittmann, University of California, San FranciscoMichael Rout, Rockefeller UniversityDylan T. Burnette, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine.