Title: 6993: RNA polymerase3481: Bacillus anthracis being killed3525: Bacillus anthracis being killed2483: Trp_RS - tryptophanyl tRNA-synthetase family of enzymes \
Description:RNA polymerase (purple) is a complex enzyme at the heart of transcription. During this process, the enzyme unwinds the DNA double helix and uses one strand (darker orange) as a template to create the single-stranded messenger RNA (green), later used by ribosomes for protein synthesis.  From the RNA polymerase II elongation complex of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (PDB entry 1I6H) as seen in PDB-101's What is a Protein? video.Bacillus anthracis (anthrax) cells being killed by a fluorescent trans-translation inhibitor, which disrupts bacterial protein synthesis. The inhibitor is naturally fluorescent and looks blue when it is excited by ultraviolet light in the microscope. This is a black-and-white version of Image 3525.Bacillus anthracis (anthrax) cells being killed by a fluorescent trans-translation inhibitor, which disrupts bacterial protein synthesis. The inhibitor is naturally fluorescent and looks blue when it is excited by ultraviolet light in the microscope. This is a color version of Image 3481.This image represents the structure of TrpRS, a novel member of the tryptophanyl tRNA-synthetase family of enzymes. By helping to link the amino acid tryptophan to a tRNA molecule, TrpRS primes the amino acid for use in protein synthesis. A cluster of iron and sulfur atoms (orange and red spheres) was unexpectedly found in the anti-codon domain, a key part of the molecule, and appears to be critical for the function of the enzyme. TrpRS was discovered in Thermotoga maritima, a rod-shaped bacterium that flourishes in high temperatures. \
Source: Amy Wu and Christine Zardecki, RCSB Protein Data Bank.John Alumasa, Keiler Laboratory, Pennsylvania State UniversityKenneth Keiler, Penn State University \
